@c -*- texinfo -*-

@chapter Style Options

In this category you'll find various options regarding the prompt style and colors.

@heading Basic

@defvr {Setting} Use BashStyle-NG
This is the master switch that will let BashStyle-NG modify your prompts
according to your choices in the Style and Advanced Options. Other categories
have their own master switches and work independently.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Colored Prompts
If active the user will be presented with fancy colorful prompts, else the they
will be monochrome. For terminals that can handle 256 (or more) colors a variety
of different shades of blue, green, red and more are pre-defined and used. If on
a terminal that can't handle those (eg. the Linux console) those shades are set
to their base color (so all shades of blue become the default blue and so on),
thus ensuring full compatibility with all terminals.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Colors
BashStyle-NG provides the following color definitons

	@itemize @bullet
	@item black
	@item red
	@item green
	@item yellow
	@item blue
	@item magenta
	@item cyan
	@item white
	@end itemize

for all terminals. The following color definitions are only available on
terminals that support 256 (or more) colors, else they are definied to the
closest match from the above list.

	@itemize @bullet
	@item coldblue
	@item smoothblue
	@item iceblue
	@item turqoise
	@item smoothgreen
	@item winered
	@item brown
	@item silver
	@item ocher
	@item orange
	@item purple
	@item pink
	@item cream
	@end itemize

For prompt parts the following variables are declared that contain one of the
color definitions for easier re-coloring of the prompts

	@itemize @bullet
	@item color_user
	@item color_host
	@item color_date
	@item color_time
	@item color_wdir
	@item color_font
	@item color_separator
	@item color_uptime
	@item color_ps
	@item color_ps2
	@item color_ps3
	@item color_ps4
	@end itemize

All of the above definitions are available in @code{echo -e} friendly varaints
with a prepended @code{e}, for example @var{ewhite} or @var{eiceblue}. For
@var{LS_COLORS} compatibility they are prepended with a @code{l}, for example
@var{lred} or @var{lorange}.
@end defvr

@heading Colors

@defvr {Setting} Colored ls output
The @code{ls} command allows for colored output according to the @var{LS_COLORS}
environment variable. Activating this will colorify ls output, respectively
enforcing it to be monochrome. Overrides operating system default.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Choose Color Style
Bash is capable of drawing the colors in different ways

	@itemize @bullet
	@item Normal
	@item Bright (equals to bold)
	@item Dimmed
	@item Inverted
	@item Underlined
	@end itemize

Your choice here effects a all prompt styles and most scripts provided by
BashStyle-NG.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Colored manpages
Using the @code{less} pager it's easily possible to colorize manual pages. This
master switch enforces man pages to be read using @code{less} and applys your
color choices.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for manpage infobar
This sets the color for the manpage infobar at the bottom.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color manpage body text
This sets the color for the manpage body text.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Randomly colored text
The user input at the prompt will be colored with a random color after every
prompt reload.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Normal text color for output
The @code{Randomly colored text} option will not reset the color before any
command's output is display. This can be achieved by activating this option.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Colored grep output
This master switch allows you to choose the color in which grep hilights it's
matches found.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Choose grep color
This sets the color in which grep hilights it's matches found.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for Date
This sets the color for the date in prompts.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for Time
This sets the color for the time in prompts.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for Username
This sets the color for the username in prompts.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for Hostname
This sets the color for the hostname in prompts.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for Workdir
This sets the color for the current directory in prompts.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for Uptime
This sets the color for the machine's uptime in prompts.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for Separators
This sets the color for prompt parts that separate the other prompt parts from
each other.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for Misc. Elements
This sets the color for misc. prompt parts, like external command output.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for Text
This sets the default font color for user input at the prompt.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for PS2
This sets the color for the PS2 sub prompt.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for PS3
This sets the color for the PS3 sub prompt.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Color for PS4
This sets the color for the PS4 sub prompt.
@end defvr

@heading Style

@defvr {Setting} Choose Promptstyle
This sets the prompt style for @code{PS1}, one of
	@itemize @bullet

	@item Separator
	@item Vector
	@item Floating Clock
	@item Equinox
	@item Elite
	@item Poweruser
	@item Dirks
	@item Dot.Prompt
	@item Sepa-NG
	@item Quirk
	@item Sputnik
	@item Ayoli
	@end itemize
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Use random style
This sets a random prompt style for @code{PS1} from the list of available styles
on each new Bash session.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} PS2
The character(s) to use to indicate @code{PS2} (continuation prompt).
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} PS3
The character(s) to use to indicate @code{PS3} (prompt for @code{select} command).
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} PS4
The character(s) to use to indicate @code{PS4} (execution trace prompt).
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Separator
The character(s) used in several prompt styles to separate different prompt parts.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} PWD cut char
The character(s) used to indicate that the current working directory has been
truncated due it's length in the @code{PS1} prompt.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Maximum PWD length
The maximum length of the current working directory before it gets truncated to
it's length in the @code{PS1} prompt. Applies to both prompt styles and the
@code{truncpwd} Bash script.
@end defvr

@heading Separator

The following settings only apply to the @var{Separator} prompt style.

@defvr {Setting} Display number of files
Display number of visible files in the current working directory in the prompt.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Display uptime
Display the machine's uptime in the prompt.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Display size of files
Display the size of visible files in the current working directory in the prompt.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Display number of the tty
Display the terminal device in the prompt (prettified).
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Display number of running jobs
Display the number of running jobs in the prompt.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Display system load
Display load average for the last five minutes in the prompt.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Display battery load
Display the battery load status using @code{ACPI} in the prompt.
@end defvr

@defvr {Setting} Display Memory
Display the RAM status, either
	@itemize @bullet

	@item Free Memory
	@item Used Memory
	@item Both
	@end itemize

in the prompt.
@end defvr
