@c -*- texinfo -*-

@c To compile: makeinfo -I doc/ doc/userdoc.texi -o doc/bashstyle.info

@setfilename bashstyle.info
@settitle BashStyle-NG user documentation
@footnotestyle end

@ifnottex
@dircategory Miscellaneous
@direntry
* bashstyle: (bashstyle).       BashStyle-NG user documentation
@end direntry

This is the @cite{user documentation} for BashStyle-NG.

Copyright @copyright{} 2007 - 2026 Christopher Roy Bratušek.

BashStyle-NG is a graphical user interface for managing Bash and co. BashStyle-NG
runs on bash startup if enabled to manage all desired settings, aswell as
creating configuration files and providing additionial utilities.

@cartouche Notice
@strong{This documentation is a work in progress and is incomplete.}
@end cartouche

@end ifnottex

@titlepage
@title bashstyle
@subtitle Graphical UI for managing Bash and co.
@subtitle User Documentation
@author Christopher Roy Bratušek.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2007 - 2026 Christopher Roy Bratušek.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.
@end titlepage

@node Top, Copying
@top BashStyle-NG Documentation

@menu
* Copying::                     Distribution conditions
* Introduction::                Brief introduction to BashStyle-NG
* Changelog::                   User readable list of version changes
* Installation::                Installation instructions
* First Start::                 First Start notes

* Style Options::               Options regarding colors and prompt style
* Aliases::                     Options for setting shell aliases
* Advanced Options::            Advanced and non-default options for Bash
* Shell Options::               Shell options (shopt)
* Git Options::                 Options for the Git DVCS
* Readline Options::            Options for the Readline library
* Vim Options::                 Options for the Vi improved editor
* Nano Options::                Options for the GNU Nano editor
* LS Colors::                   Options for colorizing ls
* Manpage Colors::              Options for colorizing manpages
* GCC & Grep Colors::           Options for colorizing gcc and grep
* Key Bindings::                Key bindings setter for Bash/Readline
* Custom Prompt Builder::       UI for fully customized prompt experience

* Configuration Files::         Notes on various configuration files used

* Prompt Hooks::                Hooks for customizing predefinied prompt styles
* Utilities::                   Extra shell utilities provided by BashStyle-NG

* User Interface Icons::        Icon names for UI
@end menu

@node Copying, Introduction, Top, Top
@chapter Copying
@cindex Copying

@b{BashStyle-NG}

Copyright @copyright{} 2007-2026 Christopher Roy Bratušek

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This package is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this package; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301 USA

On Debian systems, the full text of the GNU General Public License
version 3 can be found in `/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-3'.

@b{Oxygen Icons}

@itemize @bullet
@item Copyright @copyright{} 2007 Nuno Pinheiro
@item Copyright @copyright{} 2007 David Vignoni
@item Copyright @copyright{} 2007 David Miller
@item Copyright @copyright{} 2007 Johann Ollivier Lapeyre
@item Copyright @copyright{} 2007 Kenneth Wimer
@item Copyright @copyright{} 2007 Riccardo Iaconelli
@end itemize

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library. If not, see @url{http://www.gnu.org/licenses/}.

On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU Lesser General Public
License version 3 can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/LGPL-3

@node Introduction, Changelog, Copying, Top
@cindex Introduction
@include userdoc_introduction.texi

@node Changelog, Installation, Introduction, Top
@cindex Changelog
@include news.texi

@node Installation, First Start, Changelog, Top
@chapter Installation
@cindex Installation

@node First Start, Style Options, Installation, Top
@chapter First Start

Upon first start of the UI (@code{bashstyle} executable) the user will be presented
with a notice that a startup entry for BashStyle-NG has to be added to ~/.bashrc
in order for BashStyle-NG to actually work.

The user can either let the application add the entry on it's own or follow the
instruction to do it manually. To manually enable @b{BashStyle-NG}, add

@code{[[ -f /usr/share/bashstyle-ng/rc/bashstyle-rc ]] && source /usr/share/bashstyle-ng/rc/bashstyle-rc}

to your @code{~/.bashrc}.
@cindex First Start

@node Style Options, Aliases, First Start, Top
@cindex Style Options
@include userdoc_style.texi

@node Aliases, Advanced Options, Style Options, Top
@chapter Aliases

Aliases allow a string to be substituted for a word when it is used as the first
word of a simple command.

For example an alias of @code{myls=ls --colors=auto --directories-first}
will issue @code{ls --colors=auto --directories-first} every time you issue @code{myls}.

In the BashStyle-NG UI you can define up to nine aliases in @code{name=prog} form.

In ~/.bashrc or ~/.bashstyle.custom you can define as many as desired in
@code{alias name=prog} form.
@cindex Aliases

@node Advanced Options, Shell Options, Aliases, Top
@cindex Advanced Options
@include userdoc_advanced.texi

@node Shell Options, Git Options, Advanced Options, Top
@cindex Shell Options
@include userdoc_shopts.texi

@node Git Options, Readline Options, Shell Options, Top
@chapter Git Options
@cindex Git Options

@node Readline Options, Vim Options, Git Options, Top
@chapter Readline Options
@cindex Readline Options

@node Vim Options, Nano Options, Readline Options, Top
@chapter Vim Options
@cindex Vim Options

@node Nano Options, LS Colors, Vim Options, Top
@chapter Nano Options
@cindex Nano Options

@node LS Colors, Manpage Colors, Nano Options, Top
@chapter LS Colors
@cindex LS Colors

@node Manpage Colors, GCC & Grep Colors, LS Colors, Top
@chapter Manpage Colors
@cindex Manpage Colors

@node GCC & Grep Colors, Key Bindings, Manpage Colors, Top
@chapter GCC & Grep Colors
@cindex GCC & Grep Colors

@node Key Bindings, Custom Prompt Builder, Manpage Colors, Top
@chapter Key Bindings
@cindex Key Bindings

@node Custom Prompt Builder, Configuration Files, Key Bindings, Top
@chapter Custom Prompt Builder
@cindex Custom Prompt Builder

@node Configuration Files, Prompt Hooks, Custom Prompt Builder, Top
@cindex Configuration Files
@include userdoc_configurationfiles.texi

@node Prompt Hooks, User Interface Icons, Utilities, Top
@chapter Prompt Hooks
@cindex Prompt Hooks

@node Utilities, Prompt Hooks, Configuration Files, Top
@chapter Utilities
@cindex Utilities

@node User Interface Icons, , Utilities, Top
@cindex User Interface Icons
@include userdoc_iconnames.texi
