@c -*- texinfo -*-

@chapter Introduction

@b{BashStyle-NG} is a graphical utility and toolchain for changing the
look, feel, and behavior of @code{Bash}, @code{Readline}, @code{Vim},
@code{Nano}, and @code{Git}. It acts as a central hub to inject advanced
features and visual enhancements into standard command-line tools, making
the terminal environment more user-friendly and powerful.

The following is summary of possibilities, see the documentation for more.

@heading Visual Prompt Customization
@itemize @bullet
@item
@b{Prompt Styles:} Includes 12 pre-defined prompt designs which can
be randomized per session or customized.
@item
@b{Custom Prompt Builder:} A modular builder inside the GUI allows users
to create their own custom prompt layouts, or modify the predefined styles.
@item
@b{Color Schemes:} Full control over text and prompt colors, with optional
monochrome modes.
@end itemize

@heading Utility Enhancements
@itemize @bullet
@item
@b{Colored Output:} Forces colored rendering for traditional manpages,
@code{ls}, @code{gcc} error messages and @code{grep} matches.
@item
@b{Directory Tracking:} Features a custom @code{lscd} command that remembers
the last visited directories, auto-restores sessions, and prints directory
contents immediately after navigating.
@item
@b{Git Status Integration:} dynamically displays the current Git branch, revision,
action, and more straight in the prompt.
@item
@b{History:} customize how many commands the shell remembers, ignores duplicate
entries, and controls how history is written to disk. This includes the options for
@code{history isolation} - meaning that terminal sessions have no outside visible
history. Or the opposite @code{history sync}, when active, reloading the prompt
(pressing enter), will load any new history created from other sessions.
@end itemize

@heading Git repository access

You can get the latest in-development version by running

@itemize @bullet
@item git clone git://gitlab.com/Nanolx/bashstyle-ng.git
@end itemize

@heading Translations
@itemize @bullet

@item Existing Translations [Translator]
@itemize @minus

@item de (German) [Christopher Roy Bratusek]
@end itemize

@item Visit https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/bs-ng/ and apply for a team
or request the creation of a new one.
@end itemize

@heading Submit Bugs for Feature Requests

Visit https://gitlab.com/Nanolx/bashstyle-ng/issues for reporting bugs.

Please make sure that you got the latest stable version of BashStyle-NG. If you
got an Feature Request or a new Idea for BashStyle-NG,  don't hesitate to post
it! If you can provide patches, then that's even better.
